The Randomization Test tab contains functions that help in statistically analyzing a single-case experiment by conducting randomization tests on observed data. The following functions can be found.

* **Observed test statistic**: The observed test statistic is calculated from the obtained raw data.

* **Randomization distribution**: The randomization distribution is generated by a complete enumeration of all assignment possibilities or by a random sample of all assignment possibilities. The distribution is displayed as a vector and as a histogram (in which the observed test statistic is also marked). When there are missing data, randomization distribution is generated as usual, but instead of randomly reshuffling numerical scores only, the missing data markers (*NA*) are also included in the reshuffling. For test statistic calculations, missing data are omitted. 

* **P-value**: The *p*-value corresponding to the observed value of the test statistic is obtained by locating this value in the randomization distribution generated by a complete enumeration of all assignment possibilities or by a random sample of all assignment possibilities. If test statistic cannot be calculated for a particular randomization due to missing data for a treatment condition, the test statistic from this randomization is conservatively considered more extreme than the observed test statistic.

The following parameters may need to be set for the functions in Randomization Test tab.

* **Select the design type**: Type of single-case design. The options are *AB Phase Design*, *ABA Phase Design*, *ABAB Phase Design*, *Completely Randomized Design*, *Randomized Block Design*, *Alternating Treatments Design*, *Multiple Baseline Design* and *User Specified Design*.

* **Minimum number of observations per phase**: Only required for phase designs (*AB Phase Design*, *ABA Phase Design* and *ABAB Phase Design*). Minimum number of observations needed per phase (baseline or treatment).

* **Maximum number of consecutive administrations of the same condition**: Only required for *Alternating Treatments Design*. The maximum number of consecutive administrations of the same condition (baseline or treatment) allowed.

* **Multiple Baseline Design: Select text file containing possible start points**: Only required for *Multiple Baseline Design*. A text file containing all possible startpoints for treatment is required. In this startpoint file, each row should contain all possibilities for one unit, separated by a space or a tab. The rows and columns should not be labeled.

* **User Specified Design: Select text file containing possible assignments**: Only required for *User Specified Design*. Text file where all the possible assignments can be found. In this file, each row should contain the sequence of conditions in one possible assignment. There should be one row for every possible assignment. The rows and columns should not be labeled.

* **Select the test statistic**: Test statistic. For *AB Phase Design*, *Completely Randomized Design*, *Randomized Block Design*, *Alternating Treatments Design*, *Multiple Baseline Design* and *User Specified Design*, there are 3 built-in possibilities: *A-B*, *B-A*, and *|A-B|*, which stand for the (absolute value of the) difference between condition means. For phase designs with more than 2 phases (*ABA Phase Design* and *ABAB Phase Design*), 3 more built-in options are available: *PA-PB*, *PB-PA*, and *|PA-PB|* refer to the (absolute value of the) difference between the means of phase means. Additionally, it is possible to specify a *Custom* test statistic.

* **Define test statistic**: Only required if *Custom* test statistic is selected. Any test statistic can be specified using the variable identifiers *A* and *B* (or in the case of *ABA Phase Design* and *ABAB Phase Design*, *A1*, *B1*, *A2*, *B2*, *A* and *B*) and any of the basic R functions. For example, *abs(mean(A) - mean(B))* can be specified as a test statistic and it is the same as selecting *|A-B|*.

* **Select the randomization distribution**: Type of randomization distribution. The options are *Systematic randomization distribution* (exhaustive randomization distribution generated by a complete enumeration of all assignment possibilities) and *Monte Carlo randomization distribution* (nonexhaustive randomization distribution generated by a random sample of all assignment possibilities). Please note that the randomization distribution generated by *Monte Carlo randomization distribution* may not be the same as that generated by *Systematic randomization distribution*, consequently the *p*-values calculated by the two methods may not be equal.

* **Monte Carlo: Number of randomizations**: Only required if *Monte Carlo randomization distribution* is selected. Number of randomizations required. Please note that the observed test statistic is always included in the randomization distribution.

##### **References**

Bult&eacute;, I., & Onghena, P. (2008). An R package for single-case randomization tests. *Behavior Research Methods, 40*, 467-478. https://doi.org/10.3758/BRM.40.2.467

Bult&eacute;, I., & Onghena, P. (2009). Randomization tests for multiple baseline designs: An extension of the SCRT-R package. *Behavior Research Methods, 41*, 477-485. https://doi.org/10.3758/BRM.41.2.477

De, T. K., Michiels, B., Tanious, R., & Onghena, P. (2020). Handling missing data in randomization tests for single-case experiments: A simulation study. *Behavior Research Methods, 52*(3), 1355–1370. https://doi.org/10.3758/s13428-019-01320-3

Edgington, E.S., & Onghena, P. (2007). *Randomization tests (4th ed.)*. Boca Raton, FL: Chapman & Hall/CRC.

Hope, A.C.A. (1968). A simplified Monte Carlo significance test procedure. *Journal of the Royal Statistical Society, Series B 30*, 582-598.

